[Continued from previous page.]

      NUTTING.                11
Her habitable shores; but now appears
A dwindled object, and submits to lie
At the Spectator's feet.——Yon azure Ridge,
Is it a perishable cloud? Or there 
Do we behold the line of Erin's Coast? 
Land sometimes by the roving shepheard-swain
(Like the bright confines of another world)
Not doubtfully perceived.——Look homeward now!
In depth, in height, in circuit, how serene
The spectacle, how pure!——Of Nature's works, 
In earth, and air, and earth-embracing sea, 
A revelation infinite it seems;
Display august of man's inheritance,
Of Britain's calm felicity and power!

[Author's Note: Black Comb stands at the sourthern extremity of Cumberland: its base covers a much greater extent of ground than any other mountain in these parts; and, from its situation, the summit commands a more extensive view than any other point in Britain.]
      
   ______________
   
       VIII.
      NUTTING.

——————— It seems a day
(I speak of one from many singled out)
One of those heavenly days which cannot die;
When, in eagerness of boyish hope,
I left our Cottage-threshold, sallying forth
With a huge wallet o'er my shoulder slung,
A nutting-crook in hand, I turned my steps
Towards the distant woods, a Figure quaint,
Tricked out in proud disguise of cast-off weeds

12
Which for that service had been husbanded,
By exhortation of my frugal Dame.
Motley accoutrement, of power to smile
At thorns, and brakes, and brambles,—and, in truth,
More ragged than need was! Among the woods,
And o'er the pathless rocks, I forced my way
Until, at length, I came to one dear nook
Unvisited, where not a broken bough
Drooped with its withered leaves, ungracious sign
Of devastation, but the hazels rose
Tall and erect, with milk-white clusters hung,
A virgin scene!—A little while I stood, 
Breathing with such suppression of the heart
As joy delights in; and, with wise restraint 
Voluptuous, fearless of a rival, eyed
The banquet,—or beneath the trees I sate
Among the flowers, and with the flowers I played;
A temper, known to those, who after long
And weary expectation, have been blest
With sudden happiness beyond all hope.—
Perhaps it was a bower beneath whose leaves
The violets of five seasons re-appear
And fade, unseen by any human eye;
Where fairy water-breaks do murmur on
For ever,—and I saw the sparkling foam,
And with my cheek on one of those green stones
That, fleeced with moss, beneath the shady trees,
Lay round me, scattered like a flock of sheep,
I heard the murmur and the murmuring sound,
In that sweet mood when pleasure loves to pay
Tribute to ease; and, of its joy secure,
The heart luxuriates with indifferent things,
Wasting its kindliness on stocks and stones,  
And on the vacant air. Then up I rose,

                                              13
And dragged to earth both branch and bough, with crash
And merciless ravage; and the shady nook
Of hazels, and the green and mossy bower,
Deformed and sullied, patiently gave up 
Their quiet being: and, unless I now
Confound my present feelings with the past,
Even then, when from the bower I turned away
Exulting, rich beyond the wealth of kings,
I felt a sense of pain when I beheld
The silent trees and the intruding sky.—
Then, dearest Maiden! move along these shades
In gentleness of heart; with gentle hand
Touch—for there is a spirit in the woods.
